💀 Skully: Universal Animatronic AI Framework

Skully is a high-performance animatronic platform that bridges local Large Language Models (LLMs) with physical hardware. This framework allows any stationary bust or skull to "come to life" with synchronized speech, dynamic LCD status updates, and keyword-based emotion triggers.
🚀 Key Features

    Real-Time Jaw Sync: High-frequency audio analysis provides realistic mouth movement.

    GPU-Accelerated Speech: Utilizes faster-whisper and kokoro-onnx for near-instant interaction.

    Dual-Controller Logic: Segregated tasks between an Arduino Uno (Jaw/LCD) and ESP32 (RGB Eyes).

    Universal Character Engine: Easily swap personalities via the System Prompt.

🛠 1. Prerequisites
Hardware

    Microcontrollers: 1x Arduino Uno R3, 1x ESP32.

    Actuators: Standard High-Torque Servo (e.g., Hitec HS-425BB) for the jaw.

    Display: 16x2 Parallel LCD (for status and emotion readouts).

    LEDs: 2x RGB in the eye sockets to convey emotion (controlled by ESP32)

    Power: 5V 2A+ External Power Supply (Do not power high-torque servos via Arduino 5V).

    GPU: NVIDIA RTX 30/40-series (Recommended) for CUDA acceleration.

Software

    Python 3.10+

    Ollama: Download and run ollama pull gemma4:e4b.

    FFmpeg: Must be installed and added to your system PATH.

📦 2. Installation

    Clone the Repository:
    Bash

    git clone <your-repo-link>
    cd SkullyProject

    Install Python Libraries:
    Bash

    pip install -r requirements.txt

    Download TTS Models:
    Place kokoro-v1.0.int8.onnx and voices-v1.0.bin in the root directory.

    Flash Microcontrollers:

        Upload Skully_Uno.ino (Jaw & LCD logic) to your Arduino Uno.

        Upload Skully_ESP32.ino (RGB Eye logic) to your ESP32.

⚙️ 3. Configuration

Open skullomni.py to configure your specific hardware environment:
Python

# --- HARDWARE MAPPING ---
PORT_UNO = 'COM4'    # Arduino Uno Port
PORT_ESP = 'COM3'    # ESP32 Port
MIC_ID = 1           # Use 'list_devices.py' to find your IDs
SPEAKER_ID = 2

# --- SERVO CALIBRATION ---
CLOSED_ANGLE = 180   # Mouth fully shut
OPEN_ANGLE = 145     # Max open point for your specific jaw hinge

🎭 4. Character Tailoring
The Personality (The Soul)

To change who the character is, edit the conversation_history in skullomni.py. The "System" role defines the character's behavior, tone, and knowledge.
Emotion Triggers

The framework monitors the AI's speech for keywords to trigger hardware changes (LCD text and Eye color). You can map these in the playback_worker:

if any(w in word for w in ["angry", "rubbish", "wrong"]):
    send_to_esp(EMOTIONS["annoyed"])
    send_to_uno("E:ANNOYED")

🚦 5. Status Indicators (LCD)

    OFFLINE: Hardware is powered, but the Python "Brain" is disconnected.

    LISTENING: The system is waiting for your voice input.

    THINKING: The LLM is processing your request.

    SPEAKING: Audio is playing and the jaw is actively moving.



Extras:

Use soundcheck.py to see a list of your audio devices and corresponding number lest you have issues not hearing and/or the skull not hearing you. (i.e. Speaker and Mic issues)
Use voice_calibration.py to test different voice models and mixtures of voice models. 
Use audition.py to audition the mf I don't know I'm tired 

⚖️ License

Distributed under the MIT License. Use it to build something brilliant.
